#summary applet and patched Gtk library on Ubuntu Gusty
#labels installation

= Introduction =
This article will help you to build gnome-globalmenu from a svn snapshot.
Currently, this guide only works for trunk (svn 500+).


= Step 1: Obtain the Source =
Suppose you want to obtain trunk. for tags, branches, idea is the same.

{{{
svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ gnome-globalmenu
}}}
Then you are done. 
= Step 2: Obtain necessary compiling packages =
{{{
sudo apt-get build-dep libgtk2.0-0
sudo apt-get install xfce4-panel-dev
}}}

= Step 3: Compile and install the gnome-globalmenu =
{{{
cd gnome-globalmenu
dpkg-buildpackage -b -rfakeroot
cd ..
sudo dpkg -i gnome2-globalmenu-applet_0.4-1_i386.deb
}}}

= Step 4: Compile and install the gtk-aqd patched Gtk library =
 * Obtain GTK source code 
{{{
cd trunk/gtk+-aqd/
apt-get source libgtk2.0-0
}}}

 * Obtain gtk-aqd patch for Ubuntu Gusty 
{{{
cd gtk+2.0-2.12.0
wget http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/files/patch.diff.tar.bz2
tar jxvf patch.diff.tar.bz2 
}}}

 * Patch the Gtk
  * For Gusty:
{{{
cd gtk+2.0-2.12.0
wget http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/files/patch.diff.tar.bz2
tar jxvf patch.diff.tar.bz2 
patch -p1 < ./patch.diff
}}}
  * For Hardy:
  {{{make patch}}}
 
 * Then compile Gtk 
{{{
cd gtk+2.0-2.12.0
dpkg-buildpackage -b -rfakeroot
}}}
 
 * Install what you have compiled.
{{{
cd ..
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
}}}
 
 * Restart your computer.
 
= Step 5: Testing =
 If no error occurs, your GTK is already patched. Try to start a simple GTK program in a console and you will see a debugging messages, indicating libgnomenu not found. 
{{{
....
Using GtkMenuBar.
....
}}}

 Right click your panel find and add Gobal Menubar. Run a typical gtk program, see if it works.
    * *Skip* this step for a build of svn 833+
{{{
GTK_MODULES=libgnomenu gedit
}}}

 To keep the global menubar always run at startup, you should edit ~/.gnomerc file.
{{{
gedit ~/.gnomerc
}}}
 and add a line to it
 * *SKIP*  skip this step with svn 833 or later.
{{{
export GTK_MODULES=libgnomenu
}}}

= Step 5: Removing =
 * Remove gnome-globalmenu-applet
{{{
sudo dpkg -r gnome2-globalmenu-applet
}}}

 * Reinstall the default Gtk library.
 Checkout your update-manager, and reinstall the Gtk library releated packages.