------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.9 (draft)

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.9

  * Complete rewritten gtk plugin
  * introducing Gnomenu.Settings


------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.8

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.8

  * Updated to VALA 0.7.7
  * Enhanced multihead support 
    (enable per-monitor-mode, and add an applet to each monitor)
  * Improved source code, larger comments/code ratio.
  * Further improved preference dialog usability.
  * Integrating into gnome-panel(aka the 'Applications Places System' menu), 
    toggle with gconf://apps/gnome_settings_daemon/gtk-modules/gnomenu-panel.
    -- Experimental, Please TEST.
  * Enhanced compatability with Ubuntu karmic (Issue 507)
  * Minor fixes
  * Update the translations.

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.7

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.7}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.7

  * UPdate to VALA 0.7.5 
  * The package is now rebuiltable from the vala source code.
  * Fix crashing 64bit apps (Issue 408)
  * Added the option to disable the search box in window list (Issue 439)
  * Toggle RGBA via preference dialog (Issue 431)
  * Improved Preference dialog usability (Issue 424)
  * Fixed excess cpu time(regression) (issue 484)
  * Improved TransientFor handling (mentioned in GlobalMenuSpecification)
  * Updated some translations 


  * known problem (crashes wth backgrond since 0.7.7-beta, Issue 490) 
    Fixed in 0.7.7_1 (tags/v0.7.7_1)

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.6

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.6}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.6

  * Catch-up release
  * UPdate to VALA 0.7.3 (Issue 370)
  * Removed excessive xsession log (Issue 406)
  * Improved multithread (Issue 408)
  * Added new event types SELECTED and UNSELECTED (Issue 412)
  * Various improvements
  * Added some translations
  * Updated some translations

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.5

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.5}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.5

  * Fixed a serious leak in 0.7.4 (Issue 387)
  * Reworked application name detection. (Issue 385)
  * Upgraded to VALA 0.6.0 (won't compile with 0.7.0 or 0.5.7) (Issue 370)
  * Shortcut Keys in overflown menu (Issue 362)
  * Improved GTK Module efficiency, especially with GVIM (Issue 365)
  * Vertical Panel unusable because of the ellipsizing (Issue 379)
  * Reworked overflown menu, improving the transparency (Issue 104)
  * `Alt-<Key>` (Issue 301)
  * License cleaned up (Issue 383)
  * Experimental hybrid submenu(popup menu) handling,
    Enabled by `export GLOBALMENU_GNOME_ARGS=--hybrid`
  * Special case for GnomeDo's docky, patch from jassmith. (Issue 400)
  * Search Box is now case-insensitive.
  * Mention about `export GTK_MODULES=globalmenu-gnome` if the module is not detected (Issue 399)
  * Completely quite-nize the applet when --verbose not given (Issue 406)
  * Added some translations
  * Updated some translations

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.4

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.4}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.4

  * Online help goes to HelpCentral wiki page (issue 290)
  * if the schema for the gconf key is not found, show some thing instead of giving an empty preference dialog (issue 332)
  * Improve the race with docks (Issue 316)
  * install the xfce plugin to correct location on xfce 4.6. (issue 304)

  * refactor libgnomenu, introducing Gnomenu.Shell and Gnomenu.Item interfaces 
  * rewrite Gnomenu.Parser to remove the dependency on `g_markup_parse_context_push` and `_pop`.
  
  * Fixed crashing on OSX theme. (issue 314)
  * skip menubars in GtkNotebook, workaround Monodevelop and gnome-appearence-properties. (issue 350, issue 341)
  * Fixed the overflown menu items. (issue 360)

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.3

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.3}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.3

  * Improved XFCE Plugin
    * (1) dependency to gmenu removed.
    * (2) border (1 pixel at topmost) (need to be verified)
  * Improved Switcher on 
    * (1) application name detection
    * (2) menu layout
    * (3) Rebased the switcher with libgnomenu
  * libgnomenu.so seperately installed
  * libgnomenu is gir ready under namespace Gnomenu, configure with --enable-gir. 
  * Gracefully loading and unloading the gtk module
  * Avoid the bazzar 'Global Menu Bar' label at startup ASAP
  * Added a svn version in applet's about dialog(only if built from svn)
  * Smarter applet: if the gtk module is not loaded, send a desktop notify to guide the user. NEW BUILDING DEPENDENCY: libnotify-dev/libnotify-devel.
  * Place icons correctly in a vertical panel
  * Added many translations
  * Fixed several memory issues (core dump at about/pref dialog)


-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.2 

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.2}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.2
 
 * Experimental XFCE Plugin; edit `~/.config/xfce4/xinitrc`(and chmod +x) to enable the GTK Plugin
{{{
#!/bin/sh
export GTK_MODULES=globalmenu-gnome
. /etc/xdg/xfce4/xinitrc
}}}
 * Removed explicit GIO dependency; the gtk plugin module compiles and works with GTK 2.10.
 * Updated to vala 0.5.5; pre-0.5.5 vala no longer compiles the svn source;
 * Improved documentation
 * Code refactoring, improved speed, bigger memory foot print (6-8 MiB RSS)
 * es_ES translation
 * ru_RU translation
 * Fixed issues when AWN is the active window
 * Fixed Several leaks in the GTK plugin module
 * Fixed the wrong size allocation of icon in menu items.

-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.1

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.1}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.1

 * Bug fixes
 * Enable/Disable Global Menu via GtkSettings and the applet.
   * loading globalmenu-gnome via GTK_MODULES is no longer supported.
   * suid applications now also respect global menu. (security!)
 * Disable RGBA by default due to stability issues.
 * it_IT, fr_FR, zh_CN Translations 
-----------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7 (alpha)
 * svn1845 All children in PanelApplet and subclass of GnomenuMenuBar changed to 'local' by default. No need of GTK_MENUBAR_NO_MAC(still supported) for gnome-panel, user swither, unit tests, and most panel related applications.
 * svn1833 Added window list and window title to switcher.
 * svn1830 Theming issue
 * svn1823 Switcher
 * svn1816 Awareness of gnome_settings_daemon/gtk-modules. 
   * Unloading is yet unstable. perhaps bugs of GTK/gsd.
   * No need to use GTK_MODULES=globalmenu-gnome. (still supported)
 * svn1796 gconf configuration for the applet
 * svn1795 register the gtk module in gnome-settings-daemon's gconf key
 * svn1762 all parameters of libglobalmenu-gnome are combined to GLOBALMENU_GNOME_ARGS
   * --verbose
   * --disable
   * --log-file="filename"
 * svn1725
  * 0.7-devel branch starts
 * svn1723
  * RGBA support for Gnomenu.Menu
 * svn1711
  * grab F10(or what ever in GtkSettings)
 * svn1696
  * + alpha: the core is ready. please test the stability.

-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.6 (current development version)

 * svn1509 
  * +window selector
 * svn1446 
  * +GTK_MENUBAR_NO_MAC is back.
 * svn1478 
  * +relatively stable global menu core.
 * svn1415 
  * +Adding accelerator labels.
 * svn1408 
  * +aware of transient_for windows.
 * svn1401 
  * +major theming issues are solved.
 * svn900+
  * NOTE: When you switch to svn 900+, the line GTK_MODULE=libgnomenu should be removed.

 * Wednesday, Oct 29 2008, the GTK module is renamed to libglobalmenu-gnome.so and installed to `$libdir/gtk-2.0/modules`. `GTK_MODULE=globlamenu-gnome` is sufficient to load the module.

 * Friday, Oct 10 2008, the DBus branch is merged into trunk. GTK_MODULE=libgnomenugtk is back.

 * Thursday, Oct 09 2008, the project turns to DBus for IPC backend. in branches/0.6-devel

 * Monday, Aug 08 2008, A series of new modification is pushed to trunk and it becomes completely broken(for everyday users) before new development is done.
------------------------------

gnome-globalmenu 0.5 

 * aborted

------------------------------

gnome-globalmenu 0.4 

 * svn790 (Friday, March 14th 2008)
  * +Treatment of overflowed menu items.
  * +Customize title font.

 * Sunday, March 09 2008, GNOME Global Menu 0.4 shall be considered as available(via svn or packages) for daily use. ReleaseNotes.

 * svn570 (Friday, February 29th 2008)
  * Some one write something here.

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.3 

 * svn323 
    * + Users can now customize the appearance. 
    * + A new deploying script reduces difficulty for building from scratch. (Hopefully will also reduce packaging difficulty.)

Downloading from svn is preferred.
svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/tags/0.3_323 gnome2-globalmenu

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.3

Completely new patch/code for gtkmenubar. Reconstructed menu server.

    * + Stupid Menu Bar Scrolling
    * - No Window icon
    * + Skinning(partially working)
    * + New Protocol: Connectionless, Asynchronous(Should update the Specification)
    * + True Server/Client Architecture
    * + Stability
    * + Menu server auto detection
    * + Auto Guessing whether the menubar is a global one instead of hard coded window names. 

http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/branches/0.3/

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.2.1

    * + Press Alt and F10 in application window will invoke menus
    * + New look and feel for scrolling long menubars
    * + Added Application Icon, and application title appears as a tooltip.
    * + Automatic gtk2-aqd build tool for fedora with guide README
    * + Sample bonobo .server file for the Applet
    * + Standalone mode applet for easy debugging
    * - Removed application title's label
    * - Doesn't respect KDE's floating menubars.
    * + Packaging tarball of the applet works 

http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/branches/0.2.1/ 