#summary A quick install Guide for Gloobus

Gloobus is an extension of Gnome designed to enable a full screen preview of any kind of file.

Ever been annoyed by those tiny miniatures of your files that are helpless. Outraged by the fact that there's no miniature for half of the file formats you're using. Excruciated by the painful loading time to see if you're dealing with the right file?

Hail to Gloobus, for tis' is the Holy Grail of preview!
Designed as an extendable, standards-compliant previewer , so that it plays nice with Gnome and can be easily extended to support any kind of file, Gloobus enables instant previewing of your files, without even having to open them. Hit space, and BANG, here's the content of your file, displayed as it would if it was opened.

Currently, Gloobus supports MP3, TXT , PDF, JPG, PNG.
It has a sleek black interface which will put your files in focus

Please spread the word on forums, on planets, on your blog. We need documentation writers, translators, programmers, hackers, evangelists.
If you don't have time to help, you can also...
 * show your support by donating a couple of €/£/$/whatever to the developpers.
 * vote for us on Ubuntu Brainstorm.
<p align="center">[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/111/ http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/111/image/1/?filetype=.png]
 * test Gloobus and [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/gloobus report any bug] you may find. 

Gloobus is a preview software that lets you view files so quickly witouth having to open them in their normal software. It's based on apple's "quicklook" and it has 2 main options. The coverflow effect for a folder and the preview window for the files.

[http://gloobus.wordpress.com/ Blog]
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=828774 Ubuntuforums Thread]
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gloobus Screenshots]
[http://www.youtube.com/profile_videos?user=badchoice Screencasts]
[https://edge.launchpad.net/gloobus/+download Downloads]
[http://www.getdeb.net/app/Gloobus Deb Package for Ubuntu]
[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=guitarboy000%40gmail%2ecom&item_name=Gloobus%2c%20A%20Quicklook%20for%20linux&no_shipping=0&no_note=1&tax=0&currency_code=EUR&lc=US&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF&charset=UTF%2d8 Donate]

= Step 1: Get the Gloobus Code =
In a terminal, to install Bazaar, type:
{{{
sudo apt-get install bzr
}}}

Then, to get the code, type
{{{
bzr branch lp:~guitarboy000/gloobus/Gloobus-Preview
}}}

Type 
{{{ 
cd Gloobus-Preview
ls
sudo ./install.sh
}}}

Make sure you have the package nautilus-actions, use either Synaptic or Terminal to install 
{{{
sudo apt-get install nautilus-actions
}}}

Nautilus Actions is located in System > Preferences. With Nautilus-actions create two scripts. One will be used to coverflow, and one to preview.  You will need to fill in the sections Name, Path, and Parameter in each.
	Name        Path     					 Parameter	
	
	coverflow  gloobus    					 %d/
	preview    /usr/share/gloobus/preview                    %d/%f