#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
#How to install Global Menu Bar on Fedora 8?

= Ideas =

== Patching gtk2 ==
The patch's name is gtk2-aqd. The origin position is on aur linux's website and also can be find at ubuntu's forum. Patching gtk2 is necessary for global menu. However, the patch is more like a hack, so it is still faraway from entering the gtk2 official release.

== Setuping a menubar server ==
After patching gtk2, the gtk2 applications will put their menubar in a new toplevel window, and move it to the lefttop of corner of the desktop. This is not exciting. We still need a menubar server to pick up these daunting menubars. `gnome2-globalmenu-applet` is written for this purpose.

Note: It obsoletes the old gtk-macmenu-applet written by aqd.

= Installation Guide =
Here I list two ways to setup global menu bar for your gnome.
== By RPM ==

  * [http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/files/gtk2-aqd-0.3.193.2.12.3-3.fc8.i386.rpm]

It obsolete gtk2 and provide gtk2, so the dependency tree will happy.
There is no way to have gtk2 and gtk2-aqd parallel installed. It also stops receiving further updates of gtk2 from fedora repositories.

  * [http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/files/gnome2-globalmenu-applet-0.3-1.fc8.i386.rpm]
  * [http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/files/gnome2-globalmenu-applet-debuginfo-0.3-1.fc8.i386.rpm]

After Installing the applet's rpm, do the followings:
  * Right click on your top panel
  * Choose add to panel
  * Type Global Menu.. until it shows up in the list
  * Click on Global Menu Applet
  * Press Add

Then the new launched gtk programs' menubar will display in the top panel, with the mnemonic keys working. No rebooting, No logging in and out.

== By SVN ==
{{{
svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ gnome2-globalmenu-read-only
}}}

There should be 3 directories under gnome2-globalmenu-read-only:
  * gtk2-aqd
  * gnome2-globalmenu-applet
  * gnome2-globalmenu-test
And one file
  * runtest.sh

=== gtk2-aqd ===
Suppose you have setup the rpm devel tree by `rpmdev-setuptree`. Do following steps to obtain a patched gtk2-aqd.spec and patched gtk2 at `gtk2-aqd/libs`.
{{{
env RPMDEVROOT={Your rpmdev tree root} make setup
}}}
Then the rpms will be build, the package should be located at `RPMS/i386`.

It is possible to test whether gtk2-aqd works immediately after the above steps. 

{{{
./prefix gnomine
}}}
It will give you some garbage (a lot of gtk-message ) at the console. Thought the menubar is still in `gnomine`'s window, our patch is working now. Whenever you finished installing the MenuServerApplet, and add the applet into your panel, the the menubars will be detach from app's window.

You can also make modifications on `gtkmenubar.c` and `gtkmenuembed-x11.h`, and then
{{{
env RPMDEVROOT={Your rpmdev tree root} make patch
}}}
though no new RPMS are made,
{{{
./prefix YOURAPP
}}}
stills invokes YOURAPP with patched gtk

=== gnome2-globalmenu-applet ===

{{{
cd gnome2-globalmenu-applet
./autogen.sh
make
}}}
The executable locates at `gnome2-globalmenu-applet/src/gnome2-globalmenu-applet`
Try to invoke it by
{{{
src/gnome2-globalmenu-applet
}}}

If it opens a nerdy window and throws some tracing message via your console, congratulations again!

Now we have `gtk2-aqd` and `gnome2-globalmenu-applet`, and your terminal is occupied by `gnome2-globalmenu-applet`.

If you go back to `gtk2-aqd`'s directory and invoke some applications, eg
{{{
./prefix rhythmbox
}}} 
You will see a different.

`gnome2-globalmenu-applet`, as the name suggests, can also be placed into a panel.
However, setting it up as a panel applet is a little bit convoluted.

Panel Applets are bonobo objects. `bonobo` is, kind of COM or ActiveX equivalence in Linux. Then you need to tell `bonobo-activation-server` that you have received a new bonobo object. 

First, you need a bonobo `.server` file. Fortunately aqd has already provided one for `gtk-macmenu-applet`, and I have already patched it for gnome2-macmenu-applet. You can find it in the root directory of `gnome2-globalmenu-applet`.

However, since I am not you and don't know where the `gnome2-globalmenu-applet` executable locates, you still need to open it and replace the string APP_LOCATION with the true location.
{{{
cat GNOME_GlobalMenuApplet.server.sample | sed "s;APP_LOCATION;"{Your gnome2-globalmenu-applet's dirname ONLY dirname!}";" > GNOME_GlobalMenuApplet.server
}}}

Secondly, you need to let `bonobo-activation-server` see the file. It is very weird that bonobo doesn't allow per user server file repository. So you have to 
{{{
su
cp GNOME_GlobalMenuApplet.server /usr/lib/bonobo/servers/
}}}

If you want a rpm, then because I know the executable will be installed at `/usr/libexec`, I have coded these step in `gnome2-globalmenu-applet.spec`:

{{{
make dist
cp *.tar.gz {Yor rpmdev tree root}/SOURCES
rpmbuild -ba gnome2-globalmenu-applet.spec
}}}

=== gnome2-globalmenu-test ===
If you don't find a favorite application to test gnome2-globalmenu; or all of your favorite applications are alien gtk2 programs like firefox or OOo, you can use 
`gnome2-globalmenu-test`.
{{{
configure
make
}}}
Then in the top level of svn checkout,
{{{
./runtest
}}}

== Uninstall ==
If you've installed the rpm, but later find the global menubar boring / crashing your box / being criticized as plagiarizing OSX's interface and want to remove it.

  * Add/Remove Software,
  * Search `gtk2`
  * Uncheck `gtk2-aqd`
  * Check `gtk2`
  * Press Apply

Wait for `yum` to solve the dependencies. It should report no dependency problems.

All done!