#summary Release Notes
#labels Featured

------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.4 (draft)

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.4}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.4

  * update to vala 0.5.6 (issue 317)
  * backported to RHEL5 (glib 2.12 + gtk 2.10 + libwnck 2.16)
  * many efforts on packaging

  * workspace chooser (issue 311 in progress)
  * Switch to max label width (pixel) rather than max label length (chars) (issue 312 in progess)
  * Online help goes to HelpCentral wiki page (issue 290)
  * if the schema for the gconf key is not found, show some thing instead of giving an empty preference dialog (issue 332)
  * Improve the race with docks (Issue 316)
  * install the xfce plugin to correct location on xfce 4.6. (issue 304)

  * refactor libgnomenu, introducing Gnomenu.Shell and Gnomenu.Item interfaces 
  * rewrite Gnomenu.Parser to remove the dependency on g_markup_parse_context_push and _pop.
  * new approach for globally grabbing F10 (issue 298), compatible with gnome-shell
  * monitoring _NET_GLOBAL_MENU_XXX properties (issue 306), compatible with gnome-shell.
  * aware of 'gtk-icon-size' (issue 320)
  * Fixed crashing on OSX theme. (issue 314)


------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.3

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.3}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.3

  * Improved XFCE Plugin
    * (1) dependency to gmenu removed.
    * (2) border (1 pixel at topmost) (need to be verified)
  * Improved Switcher on 
    * (1) application name detection
    * (2) menu layout
    * (3) Rebased the switcher with libgnomenu
  * libgnomenu.so seperately installed
  * libgnomenu is gir ready under namespace Gnomenu, configure with --enable-gir. 
  * Gracefully loading and unloading the gtk module
  * Avoid the bazzar 'Global Menu Bar' label at startup ASAP
  * Added a svn version in applet's about dialog(only if built from svn)
  * Smarter applet: if the gtk module is not loaded, send a desktop notify to guide the user. NEW BUILDING DEPENDENCY: libnotify-dev/libnotify-devel.
  * Place icons correctly in a vertical panel
  * Added many translations
  * Fixed several memory issues (core dump at about/pref dialog)


-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.2 

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.2}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.2
 
 * Experimental XFCE Plugin; edit `~/.config/xfce4/xinitrc`(and chmod +x) to enable the GTK Plugin
{{{
#!/bin/sh
export GTK_MODULES=globalmenu-gnome
. /etc/xdg/xfce4/xinitrc
}}}
 * Removed explicit GIO dependency; the gtk plugin module compiles and works with GTK 2.10.
 * Updated to vala 0.5.5; pre-0.5.5 vala no longer compiles the svn source;
 * Improved documentation
 * Code refactoring, improved speed, bigger memory foot print (6-8 MiB RSS)
 * es_ES translation
 * ru_RU translation
 * Fixed issues when AWN is the active window
 * Fixed Several leaks in the GTK plugin module
 * Fixed the wrong size allocation of icon in menu items.

-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7.1

{{{svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/tags/v0.7.1}}}

Downloads:

http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/downloads/list?can=2&q=0.7.1

 * Bug fixes
 * Enable/Disable Global Menu via GtkSettings and the applet.
   * loading globalmenu-gnome via GTK_MODULES is no longer supported.
   * suid applications now also respect global menu. (security!)
 * Disable RGBA by default due to stability issues.
 * it_IT, fr_FR, zh_CN Translations 
-----------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.7 (alpha)
 * svn1845 All children in PanelApplet and subclass of GnomenuMenuBar changed to 'local' by default. No need of GTK_MENUBAR_NO_MAC(still supported) for gnome-panel, user swither, unit tests, and most panel related applications.
 * svn1833 Added window list and window title to switcher.
 * svn1830 Theming issue
 * svn1823 Switcher
 * svn1816 Awareness of gnome_settings_daemon/gtk-modules. 
   * Unloading is yet unstable. perhaps bugs of GTK/gsd.
   * No need to use GTK_MODULES=globalmenu-gnome. (still supported)
 * svn1796 gconf configuration for the applet
 * svn1795 register the gtk module in gnome-settings-daemon's gconf key
 * svn1762 all parameters of libglobalmenu-gnome are combined to GLOBALMENU_GNOME_ARGS
   * --verbose
   * --disable
   * --log-file="filename"
 * svn1725
  * 0.7-devel branch starts
 * svn1723
  * RGBA support for Gnomenu.Menu
 * svn1711
  * grab F10(or what ever in GtkSettings)
 * svn1696
  * + alpha: the core is ready. please test the stability.

-------------------------------
gnome-globalmenu 0.6 (current development version)

 * svn1509 
  * +window selector
 * svn1446 
  * +GTK_MENUBAR_NO_MAC is back.
 * svn1478 
  * +relatively stable global menu core.
 * svn1415 
  * +Adding accelerator labels.
 * svn1408 
  * +aware of transient_for windows.
 * svn1401 
  * +major theming issues are solved.

------------------------------

gnome-globalmenu 0.5 

 * aborted

------------------------------

gnome-globalmenu 0.4 

 * svn790 (Friday, March 14th 2008)
  * +Treatment of overflowed menu items.
  * +Customize title font.

 * svn570 (Friday, February 29th 2008)
  * Some one write something here.

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.3 

 * svn323 
    * + Users can now customize the appearance. 
    * + A new deploying script reduces difficulty for building from scratch. (Hopefully will also reduce packaging difficulty.)

Downloading from svn is preferred.
svn checkout http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/tags/0.3_323 gnome2-globalmenu

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.3

Completely new patch/code for gtkmenubar. Reconstructed menu server.

    * + Stupid Menu Bar Scrolling
    * - No Window icon
    * + Skinning(partially working)
    * + New Protocol: Connectionless, Asynchronous(Should update the Specification)
    * + True Server/Client Architecture
    * + Stability
    * + Menu server auto detection
    * + Auto Guessing whether the menubar is a global one instead of hard coded window names. 

http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/branches/0.3/

------------------------------

gnome2-globalmenu 0.2.1

    * + Press Alt and F10 in application window will invoke menus
    * + New look and feel for scrolling long menubars
    * + Added Application Icon, and application title appears as a tooltip.
    * + Automatic gtk2-aqd build tool for fedora with guide README
    * + Sample bonobo .server file for the Applet
    * + Standalone mode applet for easy debugging
    * - Removed application title's label
    * - Doesn't respect KDE's floating menubars.
    * + Packaging tarball of the applet works 

http://gnome2-globalmenu.googlecode.com/svn/branches/0.2.1/ 