#summary Summary and guide for Translation

= Introduction =

Since Version 0.4, localization becomes one of our considerations. We are glad to announce that the localization framework has been set up. This page contains a Howto for making translations; and a summary of current available translations.

= Howto: Make a new translation =
== Without SVN write access ==
 * Checkout zh_CN.po at
http://code.google.com/p/gnome2-globalmenu/source/browse/trunk/po/zh_CN.po
 * Save it to you computer, rename to your locale string .po. E.g: en_GB.po
 * Edit it, make sure
   * if your current encoding is not utf-8, the file will be a mess; however you should use utf8 for your translate file.
   * the first "" string's information is properly filled in, especially your name, and email address. (so that when we need to change strings you can be notified)
   * "translater_credit" shall be translated into your name, in your own language and you can optionally provide your email.
   * replace other localized strings with the strings in your languages.
 * Save the modified file, email it to:
   gnome-globalmenu at googlegroups dot com
 * If there isn't any troubles, within a few days or hours you'll find your .po file in the svn.

== With SVN write access ==
 * go to your working copy of trunk/po
 * copy zh_CN.po to your language.po (if your current encoding is not utf-8, the file will be a mess; however you should use utf8 for your translate file)
 * translate it according to the guidelines above.
 * edit LINGUAS, add your language to the tail.
 * svn commit

= Translation Summary =
||*Language*||*Translator*||
|| zh_CN || rainwoodman    ||
|| fr_FR || pierre.slamich ||